At this point, I've verified that the batch job is correctly configured.
Next, I want to execute it.
As I chose to use a web container to build the batch job,
there are a few options I have for how to execute the job.
Most likely, you're going to leverage a scheduler to launch the job; however,
for the purposes of this course,
I'm just going to create a REST endpoint to directly execute it.
I'm going to create a class named JobResource in the package com.
Pluralsight.
springbatch.
patientbatchloader.
web.
rest.
I'll be annotating the class as a Spring RestController
and setting the mapping to be /job.
I'll autowire the JobLauncher and job that was
configured earlier as part of construction.
Now let's look at the method to support job execution.
Job execution will occur as part of the new runJob method.
This method will accept the file name and the path.
This file name will be used in the next section when
I cover item reading; however, for now, it will just be needed for validation.
The fileName is added as a job parameter into a map.
As part of the JobLauncher's run method,
I passed the job instance and the parameterMap.
The last part of this method performs error checking returning a
SERVER_ERROR or OK depending on the results of execution.
Now let's add this code to the project.
For job execution, I'm going to demo adding the RestController,
starting the server, and then making a request to the rest endpoint.
Note that I'll be following Demo 8 found in the DEMOS.
md file in the root project directory.
Now that the job is configured and unit tested, I want to verify job execution.
To do this,
I need to create a new controller class that will allow me to
kick off the job using the JobLauncher.
I'm going to create a class in the package named com.
Pluralsight.
springbatch.
patientbatchloader.
web.
rest.
Let's create that now.
The class name is going to be JobResource.
I'm going to start by annotating this class as a
RestController and with a RequestMapping of /job.
This tells Spring that the class is to be managed as a
RestController and paths in this class will begin with /job.
Next, I need to add the JobLauncher and job instance,
as well as the Constructor where the instance will be Autowired.
Next,
I need to create the get method that will use the
JobLauncher to execute the job.
Let's drop that in now.
Note that I've added a mapping for Get requests using
the fileName as a path variable.
In the next section on item readers, this file name will be leveraged; however,
for now I've just included it for validation.
The fileName will be mapped as a JobParameter.
The JobLauncher will then run the job using the parameter passed.
I'm also including an exception check in case the job were to fail.
With the RestController in place, let's try to actually run the job.
I'm going to start the server from the IDE using the
PatientBatchLoaderApp configuration.
We see here that the server is started.
I'm going to open up a test REST client in the IDE.
Here, I'm going to execute the endpoint.
We're going to use the HTTP method of GET,
we'll have the host as localhost:8080, and I'm going to drop in the path.
We see here that the path is /job/test-unit-testing.
csv.
This file is located in the data folder of the project.
Let's try running it.
If the job executed successfully, you should see a Success response.
If not,
it's recommended that you verify the correct
configuration of the job and properties.
Now let's open back up the console.
If the job executed successfully, you should see three lines of output.
The first line should note that the job ran with the fileName argument passed.
The second line should read the Hello World!
output.
The final line should show the Success response.
That verifies the job is correctly configured. Now I can create the reader, processor, and the writer for our patient files.